














































 
   Focused professional targeting challenging assignments in Data Science with an organization of high repute. 

 

 

 Profile Summary 
 

 Experienced in Data Science roles across industries. 

  I am looking for a role where I can leverage my skills and experience 

for the betterment of the Organisation and further improvement to 

my own learning.. 

 Knowledge of industry best practices and a deep understanding on 

how data is extracted, transformed, scrubbed and loaded in Data 

storage environments.  

 Thorough understanding of Data Science tools, techniques and 

technologies in Machine Learning, NLP and Deep Learning algorithms  

using Python, R SciPy, NumPy, Matplotlib, Tensorflow and Keras. 

 Thorough understanding of algorithms like Regression, 

Clustering,NLP Classification, including Time Series forecasting and 

Annova methods.  

 Ability to communicate analytical results in a way that is meaningful 

for business stakeholders and provide actionable insights.  

 Conducted competency review of associates, driven innovation 

projects 

 Resolved all the technical issues arising during the execution of the 

project. 

 Reviewed and edited requirements, specifications, business 

processes and recommendations related to the proposed solution. 

 An effective communicator with the capabilities to relate to people 

at any level of business & management. 

 

 

 

Core Competencies 
 

Machine learning 

 
Client Relationship Management 

 
Process Optimisation/Cost Reduction 

 
Data Science 

 
Statistics 

 
Python 

 
NLP 

 
Deep learning 

 

tensorflow 

 
 

MANJUNATH HEGDE 
  

Nearly 16 years of extensive experience  

 analyticsmgh03@gmail.com  

(+91) 9741140333  
In https://www.linkedin.com/in/manjunath-hegde-592b5a108/ 



 Timeline 
 

 

 
 
 
 

Organizational Experience 
 

Since May’05 
Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solution, Bengaluru Growth Path: 

Senior Engineer 

Specialist 
Architect  

Key Result Areas: 
  

 To understand the business use cases from clients and convert them into a well defined problem statement and 
explain it to the development team. 

 Identify and implement use cases which might help the organisation business development. 
 Shouldering responsibilities for: 

o Leading topics like machine learning and data science 

o Competency management and development of the team 
 Following up with customers on possible new cooperation and initiating new projects. 

 Preparing Machine learning prototypes for new type of tasks. 
 Understanding the business issues and data challenges of client's organization and industry; identifying client 

organization's suggesting areas of improvement  

 Collecting data facts, analyzing them to find root cause of business problem and forwarding the key findings to 
the management 

 To understand the business use cases from clients and convert them into a well defined problem statement and 
explain it to the development team.  

 Directing weekly & daily report creation through in-depth analysis & producing actionable information. 
 To partner with other departments to solve problems and identify trends and opportunities. 

 

 Organizational Projects  
 

1)Title:  Daimler Trucks Asia End to End After Market Supply Chain Solution 

Description:    
Fuso implemented D2S in May 2015, however there were numerous issues at launch. Issues included inefficient 

master data management, low forecast accuracy, incorrect safety stock calculation techniques, poor backorder 

management and low overall visibility & transparency. Project requirements included improving supply chain 
efficiency, transparency and optimizing stock control. 

Technology 
Neural Networks, Deep learning, Python, Machine learning, Data Analysis, HIVE, Spark, Azure Cloud Platform 

Contribution 

 Involved in requirement gathering and the concept design phase of the project. 
 Developed end to end data pipeline using Spark and Scala. 

 Streaming and processing data through Spark. 
 Performing analysis for forecasting customer lifetime value, measuring long-term value of campaigns, churn 

analysis. 

 Monetary Analysis, Sentiment Analysis, Navigation Menu Analysis, Net Promoter Score, Spike orders. 
 Detection Analysis, Causal Impact Analysis. 

 

2000 Since May’05 

Robert Bosch 

Engineering and 

Business Solution, 

Bengaluru as 

Architect 

BE (Mechanical) 

from Karnataka 

University, 

Karnataka 

Quantech Global 

Services, 

Hyderabad as 

Junior Engineer 

ISRO Satellite Centre, 

Airport Road, 
Bengaluru as Graduate 

Apprentice Trainee 

Harita Infoserve 

Ltd. (TVS Motors), 

Bengaluru as Lead 

Engineer 

2004-2005 2002-2004 2002 



 

2)Title: Chatboat for supply chain application 
This chatboat is built for automotive aftermarket application. Instead of calling different locations for getting 

availability of parts, showrooms and warehouses use this chatboat. This can give info in if particular part is 
available on not and if not available how long for the part to arrive to service station. 

 

Technology 
NLP, Recurrent neural network 

Contribution 
 Involved in requirement gathering and architecture design. 

 Building data cleansing pipeline to train a model. 

 Involved in parameter tuning process for optimal model hyperparameters. 
 Scripting using python language using NLP and Recurrent neural network algorithms 

 
 

3)Title: evaluation and classification of steering housing designs for stress failures 
Description:  

Steering housings are subjected to different types of loads and combination of these loads can cause failure of 

steering housing. Stress values at different points of steering housing for previous variants is considered as past 
data . Taking this data of previous housings, task is to predict if any of future housings will fail for given set of 

loads. 
Technology 

Machine Learning, Recurrent neural network 

Contribution 
 Involved in requirement gathering and architecture design. 

 Creating artificial intelligence recurrent neural network model to establish relationship between different 
geometry shapes and failures. 

 Building data cleansing pipeline to train a model. 
 Developing statistical models for various predictive methods such as forecasting, classification and 

 regression. 

 Involved in parameter tuning process for optimal model hyperparameters. 
 Generate actionable insights from data and creating presentations and dashboards to make recommendations 

for improvement. 
 Preparing and conducting demonstration of predictive analytics module of BI along with marketing team. 

 

 

 Trainings / Certifications 
Attended trainings in:     Attended certifications courses in: 

 

 Internet of things(IOT-B) 

 BES-PE @ Bosch 

 
 

 
 BMQP (A Management Certification Program 

Conducted at Bosch Global Level) 

 German Language–A1 

  

 
 

Personal Details 
Date of Birth: 30th July 1978 

Languages Known: X 

Address: #10702,Bhuvana Greens Apartments, Off Sarjapur Road, Bengaluru -560035  


