














































RESUME 
 

Shifana M 
Email   : shifanajishadh@gmail.com  

Mobile  : +91 8907150600, +91 8951364803 

LinkedIn : https://www.linkedin.com/in/shifana-m-2b0634107/  

GitHub  : https://github.com/ShifanaJishadh  
 

Objective: 

 

To work in a challenging atmosphere by exhibiting my skills with at most sincerity and dedicated 

smart work for the growth of esteemed organization along with mine. 

 

Technical Skills: 

 

Operating Systems Windows 7/10, Linux. 

Programming 

Languages 

Python,C,HTML 

Knowledge In 

Technology 

 Data Analysis with Python 

 Data Visualization with Python 

 Machine Learning with Python(Linear Regression ,Logistic 

Regression,KNN, k Means Clustering, PCA, 

Decision Tree, Random Forest, Bayesian) 

 Deep Learning with tensorflow and keras. 

 Depth Knowledge in Probability and Statistics 

  Ms word 

 WordPress 

Tools 

 

 Pyspyder 

 Jupyter Notebook 

 Eclipse 

 

Projects: 

 

Human Activity Recognition using Machine Learning 

In this project Use machine learning to recognise various activities by  taking the activity  

recognition data set. The dataset includes sensor readings of 30 different individuals   and the  

type of activity they were recorded for. This data was extracted from Kaggle to classify various  

activities. 

Algorithms : Logistic Regression, KNeighborsClassifier, RandomForestClassifier 

 

 

mailto:Shifana.38@gmail.com
https://www.linkedin.com/in/shifana-m-2b0634107/
https://github.com/ShifanaJishadh


Classification Problem 

This Project is to identify the image of Person by certain number of images of two persons by 

using Convolutional Neural Network Algorithm. 

Technologies : Keras, Pandas, Numpy 

 

TRAZADO-Wireless Device Tracking System (Main Project):  

 

This project is track any wireless device even when they turned off. Using an inbuilt chips and 

GPS attached to the battery. The Micro controller get activated and processed using the signals 

from the nearby stations and able to track location. 

 

E-JWELL-An Android app (Mini Project):  

This is android app is for women safety and protection. Set a small device and it interconnect 

with mobile app. If anybody attacking, the device connects with mobile app and find the 

location and sent alert message to mobile phone and nearest police station. 

Educational Details 

 

Examination School/ College Board/ University  Year of 

Passing 

Percentage  

B.Tech – 

Computer 

Science 

Ahalia School of Engineering 

and Technology Palakkad 

(Kerala) 

Calicut University 2016 72.3% 

HSE GVGHSS, Chittur, Palakkad 

(Kerala) 

State Board of HSE, 

Kerala 

2012 85.67% 

SSLC VMHS, Vadavannur, 

Palakkad,Kerala 

State Board of 

Education, Kerala 

2010 95.5% 

 

Achievements 

 

 Attended Two days Workshop on Python conducted by ACCENT TECHNO SOFT (ATS) 

Coimbatore. 

 Attended the seminar on “Cyber Security”. 

 Participated in the Workshop on HADOOP BIGDATA at Interface 2K15. 

Personal Details 

 

Sex   : Female 

Date of Birth  : 08/02/1994 

Marital Status  : Married 

Nationality  : Indian 

Languages Known : English, Malayalam, Tamil  

 

Address 

969/G Ground floor, 3rd cross, A Block, AECS Layout, Hosur Road, Kudlu, Bengaluru, Karnataka-

560068 


