Abhishek Kumar Singh E-mail: singhabhishekkumar@outlook.com Mobile : +91 8147304473 Profile Summary: Data scientist with three years of experience in predictive modelling, data processing, and data mining algorithms to solve challenging business problems. Strong background in computer programming language, and knowledge of various types of machine learning and natural language processing techniques. · 2+ years of experience in Software Automation Testing and 3+ years experience as Data Scientist Machine Learning and Deep Learning Developer · Presently associated Lowe's India as Senior Engineer · Previously associated Capgemini India as Senior Software Engineer · Programming Languages: Python,Machine Learning,Artificial Intelligence, Deep Neural Networks, Convolutional Neural Network ,Sklearn Libraries, Core Java, Core Python · Databases: Hadoop HDFS, SQL · Platforms and Misc: Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook,Spyder IDE, Anaconda,python IIS, Windows XP/W7/W8/W10 · Other Skills: All phases of the software development life-cycle (requirements, design, testing, release, support), utilizing multiple development methodologies, including Design Patterns, OOD, Extreme Programming, and Structured Programming. · Possess good interpersonal skills that have been put to good use in co-coordinating with Project teams and providing customized software solutions. · Team player with effective communication skills and proven abilities in resolving complex issues. Employment Scan May 16 to Current Lowe's India Pvt. Ltd. Senior Software Engineer April 14 to Dec 2017 Capgemini India Pvt. Ltd. Senior Software Engineer Functional Responsibilities · Involved in Data Preprocessing Techniques for making the data useful for creating Machine Learning models · Owned and executed end to end multiple data science projects · Translate product requirements into analytical requiremnets/specification, design and develop required functionality. · Leveraged technology to automate daily operational activities. · Lead and mentor a team of data scientists. · Involved in creating various regression and classification algorithms by using various sklearn libraries such as Linear Regression,Decision Trees,Naïve Baye’s · Was involved in designing the neural networks using Tensorflow for various internal projects within the company such as automated chatbots using NLP Academia 2011 B.Tech (Computer Science Engineering) from GIST College of Engineering,Rayagada,BPUT University. Secured 7.0 CGPA 2007 12th from Loyala School, Dhanbad. Secured 68.3%. 2005 10th from De nobili School, Mugma,Dhanbad. Secured 60.3%. REPRESENTATIVE PROJECT EXPERIENCE SUMMARY Client Project Technology Roles Duration (in months) Lowe's India Lowe's Machine Learning, Python,Sklearn, Neural Networks, Tensorflow · Senior Engineer Current project Capgemini T-Mobile Selenium, Java, Python, Machine Learning · Senior Software Engineer 3 Years Strength Positive Attitude: To progress positively under all circumstances with conviction and maturity in approach. Adaptability & Flexibility: To adapt accordingly under the application of adverse or pressure conditions without deviating from critical to quality concerns. Enthusiasm for Learning: Endlessly strives to learn through different activities. Personal Dossier Date of Birth : 20th March 1990 Sex : Male Father’s Name : Mr. Kamal Kumr Singh Mother’s Name : Ms. Veena Singh Current Address : Flat no 292/3, 6th Cross, Munnekolala, Marathahalli, Bangalore Nationality : Indian Endorsement I hereby declare that the information furnished above is complete and true to the best of my knowledge. Date: Place: Bangalore Abhishek Singh