Abhinav Abhishek - Senior Software Developer/Data Scientist - VisualCV Abhinav Abhishek Senior Software Developer/Data Scientist Bangalore | 8757656959 | abhi4navv@gmail.com  linkedin.com/in/abhinav-abhishek-22459154 More than 5 years of experience in Software Development and Project Implementation and out of which 3-years of experience as Data Scientist, Machine Learning and Deep Learning. Working experience and extensive knowledge in Python, Natural Language Processing with libraries such as Sklearn,Numpy,Pandas,Matplotlib,NLTK,SQL Server, data mining . Platforms and Misc: Anaconda Enterprise Edition, Jupyter Notebook,Spyder IDE,SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2017, python IIS, Windows XP/W7/W8 Other Skills: All phases of the software development life-cycle (requirements, design, development, testing, release, support), utilizing multiple development methodologies. 2013Bachelor of Engineering, Electronics & communication Visvesvaraya Technological University, Bangalore Certification Program in Data Science with Deep Learning. Acadgild Diploma in .NET NIIT Technologies Limited 12/2017 - Till Date 09/2015 - 09/2017 01/2015 - 09/2015 03/2014 - 08/2014 08/2013 - 02/2014 Senior Softare Developer XL SOLUTIONS GROUP Software Programmer II MSI SERVICES PVT LTD. Project Manager P. PUNEET & CO. Developer SHRESHTHA INFORMATICS SOLUTION PVT. LTD. Database Administrator & Programmer eMATRIX TECHNOLOGIES (P) LIMITED Skills- Project Management Team Management Data Analysis Model Building Machine Learning Deep Learning Data Pre-Processing Database Management Python NLP/NLTK Pandas Numpy Matplotlib SCIKIT Learn Keras Tensorflow SQL Server Summary Education Work experience Skills Programming Skills mailto:abhi4navv@gmail.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/abhinav-abhishek-22459154 XL SOLUTIONS GROUP Institution Popularity Analysis- The company wanted to get the overviews of feedback given by students and general people before giving them insurance cover. We used NLP to find out that institution is having more positive sentiments or not and provided proper visualization using plots to help concerned team in taking the decision. Claims Management System- The system was designed to assist the team for approval of claims . Based on the company's data collected for different type of claims which were made in past with their credibility . The system uses machine learning to predict the class (Good for Approval,Reject or Verify Manually) claim based on credibility. MSI services pvt ltd. Inventory and stock allocation based on sales prediction- The application was to to provide a report of ale projection for different verity of stones and tiles in all the states of U.S. That helped the inventory team and warehouse team to manage the supply. The model was designed using sales data of last 5 years from different area and based on that the model tried to classify products in 3 classes high,moderate and low sales classes. Technology Used- Pandas,Numpy , PCA ,Matplotlib ,Random Forest Classifiers,SQL Server 2012. Sales Projection of Stones Categories- There are different types of stones which used to be imported from different country so company wanted a sales prediction for different type of stones national wise to manage imports accordingly, for which we used the historical sales data and classified the types of stones in different category of sales. Technology Used- Pandas,Numpy,Matplotlib ,Z-Score , Random Forest Classifiers,SQL Server 2012. Accounting- The application was to generate overall daily, weekly, monthly and yearly sale’s accounting data for accounting team. P. PUNEET & CO. Expenditure Management System- The system was to manage payments to over 15 types of beneficiaries all the districts and generate advice on the basis of which payment will be made by banks. Earlier this done manually and would consume time and resources,so we developed the system to make system automated and centralized. RO Purchase Management- Developed software for RO purchase management for State Food & Civil Supply Corporation. Attendance and Work allocation system- The software was to manage attendance system and allocate works to employees by their leads. It also has a reporting system to keep track of work assigned and performance of employees.The software was to manage entire functionality of a medical laboratory like, patient registration, select test and generate receipts. SHRESHTHA INFORMATICS SOLUTION PVT. LTD. Medical Lab Software- The software was to manage entire functionality of a medical laboratory like, patient registration, select test and generate receipts. Projects School Management The application was to manage all major works related to student and staffs which include student registration, fee and attendance management , employee’s salary and attendance system. eMATRIX TECHNOLOGIES (P) LIMITED HR Management System- Created the application for all HR related activities of the company, the main modules of it was salary and bonus reports, leaves and attendance Guide the team member to understand the requirement and allocate the work accordingly. Communicate with client to understand the planning of projects and provide them progress reports of each modules. Gather complete requirements of the project from user. To analyse the requirement and prepare best suited database structure design for the project. Create the database, tables, function and stored procedure for the project. Work on the code and develop the application and provide support to system team for go live process. Wrote paper on ‘An Integrated Solution of Ultrasonic Obstacle Avoidance and Blind Navigation System using RFID in Indoor Environments’ and presented in National Conference Held in B.T.L Institute Of Technology. Obtained extensive knowledge of signal processing, instrumentation device, control engineer and telecommunication technology Training on Wireless Technology, networking, OFC in India’s Largest communication company – BSNL Responsibilities Educational Credentials Abhinav Abhishek Senior Software Developer/Data Scientist Summary Skills Education Programming Skills Bachelor of Engineering, Electronics & communication Certification Program in Data Science with Deep Learning. Diploma in .NET Work experience Senior Softare Developer Software Programmer II Project Manager Developer Database Administrator & Programmer Projects Responsibilities Educational Credentials