1 AJAY KUMAR CHOUKSEY https://www.linkedin.com/in/ajay-chouksey-26b9352/ Mob: +91 98450 27503 e-mail: ajaychouksey75@gmail.com ➢ A professional with about 20 years of experience in Machine Learning, Web Science, Big Data, Hadoop Framework, Analytics, Business Intelligence, Full Stack Development, Mobile Applications, UI Frameworks, Browser & Mobile Platform development with deep insight into E- Commerce and Health Care Industry. ➢ Thorough understanding of big data technologies like M/R, Pig, Hive, HBase, Scala, Spark, etc. ➢ In depth knowledge and experience in statistics, machine learning methodologies ➢ Data Science Professional with experience in all stages of data processing and insights delivery. ➢ Start-Up Experience working as Vice president for over ~ 2 years, full engineering team (Front end, backend), IT team for AWS support and managed IT services and delivery responsibility ➢ Completed Master Degree in Computer Science from IIITB with 80% (July 2017) ➢ Worked with various clients (Doha Bank, QIC, IFS), 40K foundation- IOT devices, Openbeds (US), Verizon, Comverse Lab, Samsung Korea HQ. ➢ Deep involvement in handling the critical deliverables, benchmarking solutions, driving Key Metrics, maintaining Productivity and ensuring projects are profitable. ➢ Knowledge of industry best practices and a deep understanding on how data is extracted, transformed and handled. ➢ Expertise in Setting Technology Roadmap and Strategy for Browser on Android & Tizen Platforms ➢ Responsible for People management and handling team of 50+ engineers {Setting up MBO Goals, performance Appraisal and Day to day management} ➢ Expertise in Architecture/Design of various S/W solutions Development Tools Expertise Experience in Years Python, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Statistics, Spark, HBase, Intermediate 2+ Years Map/Reduce, Big Data, Hadoop ecosystem Expert 5+ Years PIG, HIVE Expert 5+ Years Android, Mobile App development Expert 8+ Years Java, C, MYSQL Expert 10+ years AGILE, SCRUM based Development Expert 8+ Years Design Patterns, Algorithm Intermediate 3+ Years Dev-Ops, Dockers, Deployment, CI, GIT Intermediate 6+ Years PHP, E-commerce, Healthcare, Enterprise Architecture, MVC Intermediate 3+ Years ➢ Won Samsung Presidents award, which was given to our team in 2014 among all overseas R&D ➢ Specially sent on Long Term work to Samsung Telecommunication America-Dallas for 1 year (First time in the history of SRIB) Experience Summary SKILL AND KNOWLEDGE AREAS RECOGNISIONS ➢ Received MD’s Super Saver Award in 2009 for developing Dolfin Browser Solution & replacing royalty solution (NF, Open wave, Opera) saving ~50 Million dollars. ➢ Awarded the CORE competency, TDI for the last successive 7 years, with special recognition letter during the tenure in Samsung • Working as Vice President(Senior Technical Architect)- at Carmatec IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd –since May 2017 • Worked as Head- Delivery and Service Operations for YouGoTag – (Nov 2016 ~ Apr 2017) • Associated with Samsung R&D Institute India - Bangalore (SRI-B) July 2001 ~ Oct 2016 - General Manager since Mar 2014 {Group Head for Web Team} - SDM/GEM from Apr 2011 ~ Feb 2014 - Development Manager from Apr 2007 ~ Mar 2011 - Development Lead from Apr 2003 ~ Mar 2007 - Lead Engineer from Jul 2001 ~ Mar 2003 • Senior Software engineer at Motorla India Electronics Ltd– (July 1999 ~ June 2001) • Research engineer at C-DOT– (July 1997 ~ June 1999) Carmatec IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd. (May 2017 – Till Now) 1. Doha Sooq Ecommerce Platform (July 2017- June 2018) Doha Sooq is the first and largest online marketplace in Qatar. This project is to revamp the existing DS platform and setting up a global E-Commerce platform in Big Data environment to enable performance scalability and cost efficiency using Big Data Technologies implementation. To store terabytes of log information generated by the ecommerce website and extract meaningful information out of it. The solution is based on the open source BigData s/w Hadoop. The data will be stored in Hadoop file system and SPARK/HIVE is used for data transformation. Worked on Machine Learning with Python. Roles & Responsibility a. Has played the role of a Project Manager, providing overall architectural solution for the global DohaBank client. b. Used Spark pipeline for data standardization and data aggregation c. Build the model for classifying the products and Recommended suggestions. d. Developed Customer churn analysis system which led to growth in retention of high valued potential customers a. Enabled to run the project in agile delivery model. b. Played the role of a SME for the end to end delivery of the project. Technology Stack: Python, Scikit, ML, predictive modelling, Spark, Hive, HDFS, HBase, PIG/Java, Tableau (presentation layer) 2. Responsible for the Services Delivery and Operations of Carmatec brands CodeWebber (PHP, Cake), RailsCarma (Ruby on Rails), ColorCuboid (HTML, UI/UX) and Mobile Apps (Android, iOS) PROJECT SUMMARY PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE AND ACHIEVEMENTS YouGoTag Technology Solutions (Nov 2016 – Apr 2017) 3. Worked as Head- Delivery and Service Operations for YouGoTag YouGoTag is one of the Technology startup company which is trying to do disruptive in Health Care Space and planning to bring all the stakeholders such as Hospitals, Doctors, Pharmacist, Supplier, Manufacturer and ultimately the End Customer to common platform. To provide predictive analysis in the supply chain for the distributors and Manufactures Roles & Responsibility a. Designed and implemented a scalable technology (Big Data & Hadoop) solution addressing data inflation and storage issues b. Data Cleaning, Validation, Enrichment, Analysis and Post Analysis done using Hive c. Release Responsibility, Sprint Planning, Features Review, CCB Board owner and priority finalization along with CTO d. Schedule and Risk/dependency planning and project execution e. Overall Infra Responsibility, hardware finalization, Cloud responsibility Technology Stack: Spark, Java, Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, MYSQL Samsung R&D Institute India - Bangalore (SRI - Bangalore) (July 2001– Oct 2016) 4. Heading the Web Engine Group & Program Management. (Jan 2014 ~ Oct 2016) Roles & Responsibility a. Conceptualized, Developed & Delivered SBrowser APK for Galaxy S6 b. To analyze large amount of data received from varieties of sources, namely mobile app on different devices to track the behavior of users, classify users and make appropriate business strategies c. Providing analytics by extracting web browsing data for user interactions and their browsing pattern Technology Stack: Map Reduce, HDFS, Hive, Pig, Sqoop, MYSQL, Java 5. Headed Web engine part. Lead the Architecture and Development of Samsung Browser on Web Engine for Flagship Mobile and Tablet Devices, which is commercialized on Galaxy Note3, S5, Note4 & Tablet devices across the globe. Responsible for requirement analysis, architecting the Browser and leading development and commercialization. (April 2013 – Jan 2016) Roles & Responsibility a. The Architecture supports common core logic for multiple devices (Mobile/Phablet & Tablet) b. Project domain spans from working on webkit browser engine, Chromium Blink engine, Stock Android Browser, webkit2 browser. c. Involved in defining the web strategy and monetization part. d. Driven Key features/service: Multi Instance, Reader mode, hover support, Custom Tab e. Driven the Metrics: JS &HTM5 Benchmark, Graphics Power Savings, Memory and Performance Optimizations (Page Load, Scroll, Double Tap etc). f. Taken the Samsung SBrowser as downloadable APK for Android. It is 50 million downloads and only app generating revenues through services https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sec.android.app.sbrowser&hl= en) https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sec.android.app.sbrowser&hl=en https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.sec.android.app.sbrowser&hl=en g. Team ramp-up and skill building Technology Stack: Android, Core Java, OOPs, Web Engine, HTML5 6. Headed Browser Part. Developed Samsung Own Browser (Dolfin Browser) for mobile devices. Have made 3 Major release of Dolfin across all variants (Full touch, hybrid, Full keypad) - Dolfin 0.9 (Jan 2009), Dolfin 1.0 (June 2009), Dolfin 1.5 (Oct 2009), Dolfin 2.0 (May 2010). Managing overall team of more than 70 engineers (Jan 2008 - Apr 2013) Roles & Responsibility a. Created the new project based on the idea proposed by HQ VP (Dream of having our own browser) with budget approval from Headquarters. b. Handled the LGPL license issue by providing boot-up time loading & linking of browser lib with overall phone image on proprietary SHP Phones. c. Delivered a hybrid app (Twitter & Facebook apps) on BADA using Web app framework (list view, scrollable text view and various building blocks etc using Java Script APIs eg. JQERY ) d. Established a team of 60 personnel for Dolfin Browser in Bangalore for the delivery of key applications built on Webkit, Java Script, HTML & CSS. e. Single point contact, prepared SOW for 3rd party Outsourcing Company and set up ODC for 3 years for Browser support. f. Came up with WRT {Web Run Time} Solution which is base for the Tizen Web Apps. Rapid Team ramp-up and skill building Technology Stack: SHP, C, C++, WebKit, OPEN Source Licensing 7. SHP Platform Enhancement Project (Jan 2007- Dec 2007) This project is mainly aimed to enhance the SHP Platform Capabilities and make it ready along side next generation platforms, so that the rich and vast expertise of Samsung handset developers can be used in coming up with the next generation handsets in 3G market. Roles & Responsibility: a. Worked as Program Manager b. Responsible for Requirement review & Project Proposal/Plan/Execution Review c. Architecture/Design review, Setting the Technology Roadmap d. Product Benchmarking & Driving the feature definition e. Verification of Test conformance and Delivery Technology Stack: SHP, C, Data Structures, OMA compliance, Web Services (SOAP) 8. Cingular 3G ZX30 Mobile Multimedia Color Handset (Mar 2006 ~ Dec 2006) Roles & Responsibility: a. Played the role of Product Lead b. Requirement review c. Schedule and Risk/dependency plan review and project execution review d. Architecture/Design review e. Guiding the leads for execution of the project f. Customer Interaction g. Verification of Test conformance and Delivery of REL Technology Stack: SHP, C, Data Structures, Config Mgmt (Clearcase) 9. Liaison Engineer deputed to US for 1 year (Mar 2005 ~ Feb 2006), handled Verizon Operator Roles & Responsibility: a. Complete responsibilities for the Browser activities for all the Samsung models in US b. Talking with OPERATOR and OPENWAVE, get the preCVT, CVT done c. Responsible for Browser IOT d. Passing the VZW approval process for all the models e. Participated in review and finalization of licensing terms and conditions. Technology Stack: SHP, C, Data Structures, IOT, Operator compliance 10. CDMA Products (ACH A790, A795) (Jan 2003 ~ Feb 2005) Roles & Responsibility: a. Requirement collection b. Role of Module Lead, responsible for the development of native applications (Phonebook, Planner, Settings and Recent Calls) c. Discussion with product planning team for adding new requirements d. Architecture/Design review, Guiding the team for implementation e. Train the Team members in UUI architecture. f. Verification of Test conformance and Delivery Technology Stack: UIS Platform, MMI, C, Native App development, Operator Req compliance 11. Developing Plug-in Applications for the Navi3 Browser (Mar 2002 ~ Dec 2002) Roles & Responsibility: a. Role of Team Lead, responsible for Leading the Development, Testing and Implementation of media player and flash player for the NAVI3 (Samsung’s proprietary) Browser b. Requirement collection c. Schedule and Risk/dependency planning and project execution d. Followed all CMM level 5 practices and the project audited for Organization CMM Level 5 certification. Technology Stack: Windows Platform Architecture, Plugin, Flash Player ,C 12. Developing Embedded Browser(July 2001 ~ Feb 02) Roles & Responsibility: a. Team Setup & to develop an embedded browser that will be used in all its products such as Digital T.V b. Requirement collection from Samsung Korea c. Schedule and Risk/dependency planning and project execution d. The implementation of this project is done in ‘C’ using VC++ under Window’s 2000 and then ported to the real time PSOS environment Technology Stack: Visual Studio, C++, RTOS, C Motorola India Electronics Limited { R &D Cost center of Motorola US (Libertyville Chicago) – Lead Engineer for Motorola iDEN phones (July 1999 –Jun 2001) 13. CONDOR Product Development (Jan 2000 ~ June 2001) Roles & Responsibility: a. Requirement preparation and Design b. Involved in gathering the requirements. Design, development, testing and Integration of “Shortcuts” and “Styles” feature for the CONDOR mobile phone. c. Study of ERGO (Motorola’s iDEN phone architecture) and the UIS (User Interface Services) which is one of the building block in Motorola’s P2K platform d. Owned the integration activities and integrated with the phone software at the Customer site (Motorola USA) 14. Development of SUAPI Layer on the top of ROS (Jul 1999 ~ Dec 1999) Technology Stack: Mobile Platforms ,MMI, App development framework, C C-DOT {Centre for Development of Telematics, Bangalore } – Research Engineer (July 1997 ~ Jun 1999) 15. Development of Clear Channel FTP protocol software for the VSAT’s (Jan 1999 ~ June 1999) Roles & Responsibility: a. VSATS uses FTP protocol, FTP is implemented using Client-Server model b. Worked as research Engineer and involved in developing software for connection setup, data transfer and connection clear objects in the overall FTP software. c. UML for Design 16. Design and Development of Network Traffic Processor (Oct 1997 ~ Dec 1998) Roles & Responsibility: a. NTP is a PC with add on cards in the HUB, which acts as a router for the traffic (DATA) generated by the VSAT connected to it. b. Implementation of the software for routing the user services across network c. Responsible for testing the individual modules, written down test cases for checking the functionality of various modules. d. C, Socket Programming, Unix, HTTP Technology Stack: C, Socket Programming, Unix, HTTP, UML 1. B.E, Electronics and Communication from Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology with Grade: A - 81% in 1997 (1993 ~ 1997) 2. Got the Academic Scholar Ship for 2nd, 3rd and 4th Year consecutively during my engineering. 3. Master Degree in Computer Science from IIIT Bangalore in 2017. Got 80% marks, it done Full time Through Samsung sponsorship program (2014~2017). Educational Summary