Aniket Kashyap - Software Developer/Data Scientist - VisualCV Aniket Kashyap Software Developer/Data Scientist Bengaluru | 9691316944 | monu.aniket@gmail.com  linkedin.com/in/aniket-kashyap-37456ba4/  github.com/Aniket130590 More than 4 years of experience in Software Development and Project Implementation and out of which 2+years of experience as Data Scientist, Machine Learning and Deep Learning.Working experience and extensive knowledge in Python, Natural Language Processing with libraries such as Sklearn,Numpy,Pandas,Matplotlib,NLTK,SQL Server, data mining .Platforms and Misc: Anaconda Enterprise Edition, Jupyter Notebook,Spyder IDE,SQL Server Management Studio, Visual Studio 2017, python IIS, Windows XP/W7/W8Other Skills: All phases of the software development life-cycle (requirements, design,development, testing, release, support), utilizing multiple development methodologies. 06/2017 - Till Date 09/2016 - 04/2017 01/2014 - 08/2016 Software engineer XL SOLUTIONS GROUP Software engineer Hewlett Packard Enterprise Developer Touch idea - 2013 - 2014 - 2014 Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Science Swami Vivekananda Technical University, Bhilai Certification Program in Data Science with Deep Learning. AcadgildNIT Hyderabad Diploma in. Net NIT Hyderabad Project Management Data Analysis Data Pre-processing NLP Database Management Model Building Machine Learning Deep Learning Python Numpy Pandas Matplotlib SCIKIT Learn NPL/NLTK Tensorflow Keras SQL Server Summary Work experience Education Projects Skills Programming Skills mailto:monu.aniket@gmail.com https://www.linkedin.com/in/aniket-kashyap-37456ba4/ https://github.com/Aniket130590 https://www.niit-tech.com/ XL SOLUTIONS GROUP United Educators- Institution Popularity Analysis- The company wanted to get the overviews of feedback given by students and general people before giving them insurance cover. We used NLP to find out that institution is having more positive sentiments or not and provided proper visualization using plots to help concerned team in taking the decision. ML Crane- Accessories and parts Requirement Prediction System- The company had many service stations across country for service of cranes, and it was difficult for them to maintain supply of all parts across all service centers as they were having different demands to organize the supply they wanted to have predicted model that can predict if that which parts will be needed in a particular region and they used to provide those parts in that region. We got many data related to climate, industrial uses and other related information and using which we prepared our model. For this we tested many ML algorithms and then found decision tree and random forest were having similar output so we decided to put decision tree as the it needed less computation time and less computational resources. Technology Used- Pandas,Numpy , PCA ,Matplotlib ,Random Forest Classifiers,SQL Server 2012. HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE. VFS Global - Visa Approval Prediction- One of our client VFS wanted to have a prediction system which would classify applications in 3 categories based on chances of approval high, medium and low based on which they used to either process the application to concerned country’s o ice, this was helpful mainly for student and work visas as their approval depends on trend mostly. We got all previous data like the course detail ,highest qualification, year of stay etc. to build the model and using that we built model. In this case we got one of the best accuracy using decision tree and so finalized the model. Touch Idea . My HRWIZARD - This project mainly deals with providing efficient and accurate payroll services to companies. Companies ranging from a single employee to thousands of employees can use these services for the effective management of employee payroll services. One of the main features of this project is report generation based on wide variety of base reports. It is useful in payroll processing, maintenance of time and attendance, HR services, Maintenance of insurance and access to workers compensation etc. This system provides a broad range of time keeping that allow employers to effectively track employee hours. Each feature is offered to assist in conveniently organizing and quantifying an employee's work day. Key features include Job costing, Automated overtime Calculations, Holiday tracking and payment, Online time-card editing, Daily auto email report etc. TAF Route Management of a Bicycle Riding Event - The objective is to manage the whole route of a bicycle riding event. It has different modules like registration of riders as well as volunteers, creation and management of route map, task assignment to all, tracking the riders’ locations and showing in the map, helping and assisting the riders etc. Guide the team member to understand the requirement and allocate the work accordingly. Communicate with client to understand the planning of projects and provide them progress reports of each modules. Gather complete requirements of the project from user To analyse the requirement and prepare best suited database structure design for the project. Create the database, tables, function and stored procedure for the project. Work on the code and develop the application and provide support to system team fro go live process. “ONLINE PC BUILDER” is customized for configure PC Online this project can make easy to configure and purchase pc online, and provide online ordering environment for your personal computer users. Project is completed in Three Tire architecture. In this project we used ASP.NET, technology for making a web application, jQuery for validation, Bootstrap for responsive web page, and MySQL Database for backend in this project developed in two modules which is based on User and Admin module. Worked as Project Leader with work in designing and requirement analysis phase of Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC). We followed the waterfall model. Along with this helped in programming in different modules. Animated website design. Responsibilities Educational Credentials Aniket Kashyap Software Developer/Data Scientist Summary Skills Programming Skills Work experience Python Software engineer Software engineer Developer Education SCIKIT Learn Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Science Certification Program in Data Science with Deep Learning. Diploma in. Net Projects Responsibilities Educational Credentials