Indeed Resume Himanshu Tyagi Pune, Maharashtra - Email me on Indeed: indeed.com/r/Himanshu-Tyagi/1c1abc0800189689 • Data Science Professional with experience in all stages of data processing and insights delivery. • Data mining and statistical analysis to identify insights and pattern in complex datasets. • Experience in insights delivery for Insurance and related verticals. • Competent in working with Artificial Neural Networks. • Knows Machine Learning with Python. • Efficient in developing Supervised/Unsupervised learning models. Willing to relocate to: Delhi, Delhi - Bengaluru, Karnataka - Pune, Maharashtra WORK EXPERIENCE Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra - March 2017 to Present Client -Sunlife Financials (Data Insights) Project Overview - • Developed churn analysis, fraud claim detection on real time data/back-office data. • Currently working on neural networks and deep learning prediction system. Responsibilities - 1. Data Understanding and process formation from clients. 2. Extensive hands-on with regression and classification techniques. 3. Building baseline models for the requirements with necessary data preparation. 4. Parameter tuning process for optimal model hyperparametrs. 5. Ensembling learning methods for the tuned models. 6. Implemented Customer churn analysis models. 7. Recommended products with market-basket analysis techniques which lead to increase in sales by 17%. 8. Developed Customer churn analysis sytem which led to growth in retention of high valued potential customers. Capgemini - Pune, Maharashtra - May 2016 to February 2017 Client -Sunlife Financials (Group Fact) Project Overview - Mainframe development and support project. Worked on insurance vertical. Handled claims, premiums, and commission processing via batch cycles. Responsibilities - 1. Handling Production batch cycle. 2. Mainframe development with JCL, COBOL, DB2, IMS, VSAM, CA7 etc 3. Enhancements with COBOL and easytrieve. https://www.indeed.com/r/Himanshu-Tyagi/1c1abc0800189689?isid=rex-download&ikw=download-top&co=IN 4. Claim processing and disbursements. 5. Unit Testing, Code validation and reviews. 6. Compliance check with client inputs. 7. Automations and Delivery responsibilities. 8. Data Scientist Capgemini 1. Data Understanding and process formation from clients. 2. Extensive hands-on with regression and classification techniques. 3. Building baseline models for the requirements with necessary data preparation. 4. Parameter tuning process for optimal model hyperparametrs. 5. Ensembling learning methods for the tuned models. 6. Implemented Customer churn analysis models. 7. Recommended products with market-basket analysis techniques which lead to increase in sales by 17%. 8. Developed Customer churn analysis sytem which led to growth in retention of high valued potential customers. EDUCATION BTech in Electronics UPTU - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2010 to 2011 Assisi Convent School Noida - Noida, Uttar Pradesh 2008 to 2009 SKILLS Neural Networks, Deep learning, Python, Machine learning, Data Analysis ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Skills • Strong background of Python scripting and OOPS concepts. • Competent in writing SQL queries. • Strong communication and presentation skills. • Relevant delivery experience in financial services organization. • Excellent organizational and analytical skill.