LEELAVATHI V Mobile: +91-8197825577 Email: leelagangat19@gmail.com : https://github.com/leelagangat19 : https://www.linkedin.com/in/leelavathi-venkatesh-b96b1a150 PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY 7+ years of experience in Fraud management, Critical alarm management, Incident management, Quality management, Content writing/editing and Team management. Data scientist with 1+ years of experience in data processing, and data mining algorithms to solve business problems Experience in understanding complex objectives, documentation, and customer oriented approach and mitigate to resolve issues. · 7+ Years of total experience · ITILV3® Foundation Certified · Six Sigma ‘Yellow Belt’ · Silver certifications in Retail Management · Completed Data Science Masters from Acadgild 2+ years of experience in Incident management and 1.5+ years of experience as Data Scientist Machine Learning as Fraud Analyst with Tesco HSC. Previously associated Infosys as Senior Content Review Editor. Programming Languages: Python, Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Deep Neural Networks, Convolutional Neural Network, Sk learn Libraries, Core Java, Core Python Databases: Hadoop HDFS, SQL Platforms and Misc: Anaconda, Jupyter Notebook, Spyder IDE, Anaconda, Python IIS, Windows XP/W7/W8/W10 Other Skills: All phases of the software development life-cycle (requirements, design, testing, release, support), utilizing multiple development methodologies. Possess good interpersonal skills that have been put to good use in co-coordinating with Project teams and providing customized software solutions. Team player with effective communication skills and proven abilities in resolving complex issues. Employment Scan Feb 2011 to Oct 2015 Tesco HSC Fraud Analyst Jan 2007 to June 2009 Infosys Senior Content Review Editor Functional Responsibilities Involved in Data Preprocessing Techniques for making the data useful for creating Machine Learning models. Owned and executed end to end data science project. Translate product requirements into analytical requirements/specification, design and develop required functionality. Leveraged technology to automate daily operational activities. Involved in creating various regression and classification algorithms by using various sklearn libraries such as Linear Regression, Decision Trees, Naïve Baye’s Academia MSc REPRESENTATIVE PROJECT EXPERIENCE SUMMARY Client Project Technology Roles Duration (in months) Tesco HSC Incident Management Fraud Analyticts Sentinel Machine Learning, Python,Sklearn, Tensorflow · Officer · Fraud Analyst 2.5 Years 1.5 Years Infosys Yahoo · Senior Content Review Editor 2.5 Years Strength Positive Attitude: To progress positively under all circumstances with conviction and maturity in approach. Adaptability & Flexibility: To adapt accordingly under the application of adverse or pressure conditions without deviating from critical to quality concerns. Enthusiasm for Learning: Endlessly strives to learn through different activities. Exra Curriclar activites • Organized a National level Symposium called “Gnanarjana” in 2005 as Student coordinator. • Organized Educational Trips to various Companies in Mumbai, Pune, Hyderabad. • Awarded with Certificate from Royal Society of Chemistry, London, in Alumni Association at IISC Bangalore. Personal Dossier Date of Birth : 10th March 1981 Sex : Female Father’s Name : Mr. S L Venkatesh Mother’s Name : Ms. M V Jayalakshmi Current Address : Flat no A309, B M Marvel apartment, Bore well road, Whitefield, Bangalore Nationality : Indian Endorsement I hereby declare that the information furnished above is complete and true to the best of my knowledge. Date: Place: Bangalore Leelavathi V GitHub