Chetan Hirapara Ahmedabad | +91-9913007097 | +91 7972330518| : chetanhirapara15@gmail.com : github.com/chetan | : linkedin.com/in/chetan-hirapara CAREER OBJECTIVE A passionate data scientist having 8+ years of experience in Software Development and 3+ years of experience in predictive modelling, data processing, and data mining algorithms, NLP, leveraging hand-on experience to Machine Learning to solve challenging business problems. Strong background in Python and knowledge of various types of machine learning techniques. SUMMARY 1. Good understanding of Data Analysis, Statistics, AI/ML techniques. 2. Extensive Model building experience with Machine Learning/AI algorithms for Product and Financial developments 3. Experience in creating mature Data science pipelines encompassing Data standardization, Feature extraction, model validation and optimization. 4. Working in collaboration with Product Managers to understand the challenges of any product developments and providing solutions using AI/ML techniques. 5. Experience with Recommender systems for product recommendation to the market. 6. In-depth knowledge of rich repertoire of Regression, Classification, Clustering and Dimensionality reduction algorithms 7. Experience in creating models using algorithms Kernel-KNN, Decision Trees, Random-Forest, Gradient-Boosting and SVMs 8. Clustering includes partitioning types K-Means, Hierarchical and DBScan. 9. Visualization experience with ggplot in R, seaborn and matplotlib in Python. 10. Fluency with both, R and Python for data-science investigations using different libraries such as Dplyr, corrplot, data.table, caret in R & NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, Scikit-Learn in Python. TECHNICAL SKILLS Skill Technology worked on Programming /Scripting Python, R, JavaScript Tools /IDE PyCharm, Pyspyder, Jupyter Notebook, R Studio Machine Learning Machine learning, Data Analysis, Data Wrangling Statistical modelling, Natural language Processing, Pandas, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib, Time series (Arima model) Deep Learning ANN, CNN, Faster CNN RNN – LSTM, Version Control Git, Bitbucket, Microsoft TFS Cloud Azure, AWS Database SQL, MySQL, MongoDB Operating system Windows, Linux Skills and Knowledge Areas Development tools Expertise Experience in years Python Programming Good 3+ Machine Learning Good 3+ SQL Good 4+ Agile/Scaled Agile methodology Good 6+ Deep Learning Intermediate 1+ Natural Language processing Intermediate 1+ PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE · Altimetrik India Private Limited (Sept 2016 –Till date) Role : System engineer Project 1 : Banking application monitoring. Involved in building an AI predictive modelling for monitoring bank application, it will help in checking the health status and monitoring the interface applications connected with the banking system, it Monitor and raises an alarm if there is any major issues within the application. (Python, Random Forest, Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), Keras, Tensorflow ) Project 2 : Credit and Loan eligiblity score In this project, we built a model for analyzing the credit score and loan eligibility of the customers based on the previous transaction and KYC information with cognitive computing technologies with cross validation set and regression tools while filling the online application. (Python,classification and regression model , neural networks) · Wipro Infotech (Dec 2015- Aug 2016) Role: Application Engineer Project : Was involved in designing of chatbot with AI predictive modelling, neural networks and Machine learning techniques , The bot was used for conversational banking with quick TAT and helped customers with their KYC queries and transaction details in chat. EDUCATION · Bachelor of Engineering - 2014-2015 Tontadarya college of Engineering ,Gadag,Karnataka · Pre-University college – 2010 St.Aloysius PU College ,Harihar,Karnataka EDUCATION · Spot Appreciation award – Oct 2017 · Certificate of Appreciation – Mar 2018 · Spot Appreciation Award – Feb 2019 gO