SP sandeep pulabarth Lead Engineer @TCS | +91-8722274646 SP Objective A passionate data scientist having experience in predictive modelling, data processing, and data mining algorithms to solve challenging business problems. Strong background in Python and knowledge of various types of machine learning techniques. software tools Jupyter Anaconda Spyder CODING SKILLS Core Python NumPy Pandas Scipy Matplotlib Machine Learning Exposure to Random Forest, Decision tree, KNNs, Adaboost XGBoost Linear Regression Logistic Regression KMeans other skills Statistics Hive SQL Unigraphics NX Teamcenter Engineering PLM/PDM Tools sandeep pulabarthi Lead Engineer @TCS +91-8722274646 Experience LEAD ENGINEER •tcs• jan/2017 – till date · Understand the requirements and formulate problem statements. · Acquisition and analysis of data. · Analyze data sets to provide insights to experts from various domains. · Building statistical modeling and applying various machine learning techniques. · Use of analytics for automation and enhancement in the field of aerospace industry eg. - predictive maintenance using machine learning · Data Understanding and process formation from clients. · Extensive hands-on with regression and classification techniques. · Building baseline models for the requirements with necessary data preparation. project lead• semcon india pvt ltd • nov/2010 –jan/2017 Project 1: After analyzing datasets from various engines built predictive models for high impact Aero-Engine components. This model has not only consistently predicted the failure of components, but also helped reduce the downtime of aircraft in the field. Project 2: Built an integrated spare parts forecasting model for a dealer network of a major OEM. The solution improved traditional forecasting models with the real-time demand for the spare parts collected from asset performance in the field Mechanical Projects Domain: Steam Turbine, Turbomachinery Client: Siemens –Finspong, Sweden Tool: NX6, Catia V5, Teamcenter & Pulse Inputs: CADDS5 and Turbine 2D Layout. Responsible for 5 Engineers team working for Siemens steam Turbine-Finspong on Migration and Design & Development. Involved in Migration of CADDS5 drawings to NX and creating Manufacturing drawings for various steam turbine components like casings, Inlet and exhaust bearing, Rotors, diaphragm carriers, Labyrinth seals, Valves, Inlet volutes from Iges, Exhaust casings from 2D layouts Project: Design and Migration of Steam turbine components of SST700/900 from CADDS5 to NX And creating Manufacturing drawings from provided Turbine Layouts Roles & Responsibilities: 1. Trained Engineers on NX, Siemens workflow process, Steam turbine components, Team Centre & Pulse 2. Responsible for gathering inputs from Siemens and discussing with HG responsible on improvements and Technical issues before starting work. 3. Work planning and allocating tasks based on skill sets of the engineers. 4. Supporting Team in technical and design issues. 5. Responsible for quality and on-time delivery. 6. Worked on Design & Detailing of various steam turbine components like casings, bearings, rotors, Internal pipes & conn., Exhaust casings, Inlet volute etc. 7. Prepare relevant design and layouts using NX in accordance with appropriate standards and design. 8. Preparing Bill of material specifications for various steam turbine components and creating new structures. 9. Set up new process and checklist to ensure quality output to the client. 10. Reviewing the drawings in customer data base and approving them to next level. SR ENGINEER •infotech (presently CYIENT) • jun/2008 – nov/2010 Domain: Aircraft Engine, Aerospace Client: Pratt & Whitney Role: Design Engineer About P&W - Pratt & Whitney was developing a new engine configuration having a geared technology for its Next generation products, PW1000G. According to Pratt & Whitney in engine configuration a new bearing (#6) is to be added. The legacy engines of Pratt consist of only 5 number of bearing compartments. #6 bearing compartment is newly added in PW1000g. Our team was responsible for design of Squirrel cage, Jumper tube, Spacer, End cap and Rear Nozzle. The components should satisfy both Design Criteria and also manufacturing feasibility. Projects involved were 1. Design of #6th Bearing Compartment parts/ PW1000G MRJ 2. Design of Squirrel cage & Detailing 3. Design of Spacer & Detailing 4. Design #4th Bearing Compartment parts/ PW1000G MRJ 5. Design of Air Deflector & Detailing 6. Sector Cut Models of all Bearing Compartment parts/ PW1000G MRJ 7. Design #1 Bearing Compartment parts/ FT4000 . engineer • kabra extrusiontechnik ltd•may/2006 –jun/2008 · I am involved as a design engineer in processing regular work order along with upgrading of existing extrusion machinery. My role also demands · Design, modelling and drafting of plastic extrusion Machines. · Provided total plant layout for assembly purpose. · Prepare assembly drawings for assembly purpose. · Reverse engineering of the plastic extrusion machinery critical parts. · Conversion of collaborator’s Die head drawing from ASME standards to ISO standards. · Process all Tape plant work orders. Education Bachelor of mechanical engineering• 2006 • Gandhi institue of engineering and technology, gunupur You might want to include your GPA and a summary of relevant coursework, awards, and honors. Awards · Spot Appreciation Award - 12th May 2016 · Certiﬁcate of Appreciation - 22nd July 2015 · Spot Appreciation Award - 29th May 2014 · Outstanding team performance – November 2008 sandeep.dasc1@gmail.com https://github.com/sandeepdasc1 www.kaggle.com/sandeepdasc1 www.linkedin.com/in/pulavarthy-s-321a92152/ sandeep.dasc1@gmail.com https://github.com/sandeepdasc1 www.kaggle.com/sandeepdasc1 www.linkedin.com/in/pulavarthy-s-321a92152/ 2